NAME: Dhakshin Suriakannu
EMAIL: bruindhakshin@g.ucla.edu
ID: 605280083

Files:

1. lab2_add.c - Implements a shared variable to test an add function with a varied number of threads.
2. SortdList.h - Header file for linkedlist
3. SortedList.c - insert, delete, lookup, and length for circular linkedlist
4. lab2_list.c - Runs varied number of threads to add to a list and delete items synchronously
5. lab2_add.csv - output of lab2_add.c
6. lab2_list.csv - output of lab2_list.c
7. lab2_add.gp - Runs gnuplot on the data in lab2_add.csv 
8. lab2_list.gp - Runs gnuplot on the data in lab2_list.csv

QUESTION 2.1.1

Many iterations are needed to see errors because if the number 
of iterations is too small then each thread can execute in one time slice. 
Therefore no thread is interrupted and race condition errors do not occur 
that typically happen with multi threading takes place. Small iterations
can also fail because the thread is can complete the entire function 
within one time slice.

QUESTION 2.1.2

Yield is slow because it causes time to interrupt the current thread and switch to another.
This is also where the additional time is going, because time is needed to switch threads.
Since we don't know how long it takes to switch between threads, we cannot get valid per-operation timings.

QUESTION 2.1.3

The cost drops because with more iterations it is faster since we are able to compensate to minimize
the overhead and time taken to change threads.
Using the png files generated, we can see that cost per iteration decreases exponentially so the value that items
approaches is the "correct" cost

QUESTION 2.1.4

For a low number of threads we don't see the impact of thread switch as much as we would with a large number
of threads. Due to this all of the options perform similarly because there isn't enough data to tell.
With more threads, the overhead of a thread waiting for lock to be released instead of doing an operation adds up overtime.

QUESTION 2.2.1

Part 1 shows that an increased thread number corresponds to an increased in time/cost per mutex-protected operation whereas
part 2 shows that the thread number has to effect on time/cost per mutex-protected operation.
The differences in an increasing curve in part1 and non increasing line in part 2 is because for a linked list mutex lock,
less switching occurs because it stays locked longer and thus creating less overhead.

QUESTION 2.2.2

In part 2: When there is 1 thread, then the cost is the same between spin locks and mutexs. As the number of threads incease,
the cost for spin lock increases whereas the cost for mutex stays the same. The gradient of the line for spin lock is >0 whereas 
for mutex it is close to 0.

In part 1: the trend of the spin lock being more than mutex is much stronger. 

This is because using a spin wastes the CPU time because it just spins the whole time and is stuck. Using a lock is improves time 
because the CPU will ignore anything that is detected as locked and will not waste time on it. It will only return when it is unlocked.